**Equinox p2** is a component of the
[Equinox](http://eclipse.org/equinox/) project. p2 provides a
provisioning platform for [Eclipse](Eclipse "wikilink")-based
applications. Here in the wiki you can find ongoing design and
development information (e.g., How-Tos, plans, etc.). For all Equinox
related wiki articles see the [Equinox Article
Index](:Category:Equinox "wikilink"). For p2-specific articles, see the
[Equinox p2 Article Index](:Category:Equinox_p2 "wikilink").

## Getting Started & User Guides

  - For End Users

:\*[Equinox/p2//Update UI Users
Guide/](Equinox/p2/Update_UI_Users_Guide/ "wikilink") - A guide to using
p2 in Eclipse to update your workbench

:\*[Equinox/p2//Getting
Started/](Equinox/p2/Getting_Started/ "wikilink") - A guide for users of
p2-enabled Eclipse applications.

  - For Advanced Users / Release Engineers

:\*[Equinox/p2//Concepts/](Equinox/p2/Concepts/ "wikilink") - A guide
for people looking to understand what this is all about.

:\*[Equinox/p2//Admin UI Users
Guide/](Equinox/p2/Admin_UI_Users_Guide/ "wikilink") - A guide to using
the Admin UI for bundle pool installation

:\*[Equinox/p2//Getting Started for
Releng/](Equinox/p2/Getting_Started_for_Releng/ "wikilink") - An
adoption guide for people assembling Eclipse-based products and update
sites

:\*[Equinox/p2//Director
application/](Equinox/p2/Director_application/ "wikilink") - How to
invoke p2 installation from the commandline

:\*[Equinox p2 mirror, p2 composite, p2
repo2runnable](Equinox/p2/Ant_Tasks "wikilink") - Ant tasks for
mirroring, manipulating composite repos, and converting a repo to
"runnable" form

:\*[Equinox/p2//Console Users
Guide/](Equinox/p2/Console_Users_Guide/ "wikilink") - How to invoke p2
from within the OSGi console

:\*[Equinox/p2//Webapp
QuickStart/](Equinox/p2/Webapp_QuickStart/ "wikilink") - A quickstart to
demonstrate the applicability of the provisioning work in a web
application.

:\*[Equinox/p2//Build/](Equinox/p2/Build/ "wikilink") - A guide for
building P2 from source (for commiters and contributors).

:\*[Equinox/p2//P2 Fragments/](Equinox/p2/P2_Fragments/ "wikilink") -
How to package software for RPM (and other installers, too).

:\*[Equinox/p2//FAQ/](Equinox/p2/FAQ/ "wikilink") - Frequently Asked
Questions

  - For clients of p2 API

:\* [Equinox/p2//Helios Migration
Guide/](Equinox/p2/Helios_Migration_Guide/ "wikilink") - A guide for
users of the provisional p2 API on how to adopt the new stable p2 API
declared in the [Helios](Helios "wikilink") release.

:\* [Frequently Asked Questions](Equinox/p2/FAQ/ "wikilink")

## p2 Developer Resources

  - [Equinox/p2//Plan/](Equinox/p2/Plan/ "wikilink") - The current plans
    and set of pending issues
  - [Equinox/p2//User Interface/](Equinox/p2/User_Interface/ "wikilink")
    - Planning documents related to development of the p2 user interface
  - [Equinox/p2//Meetings/](Equinox/p2/Meetings/ "wikilink") - Minutes
    and information on the weekly public p2 planning and design call
  - [Equinox/p2//Testing/](Equinox/p2/Testing/ "wikilink") - Information
    on automated and manual testing of p2.
  - [Equinox/p2//Ganymede/](Equinox/p2/Ganymede/ "wikilink") -
    Historical information about p2 in the
    [Ganymede](Ganymede "wikilink") release
  - [Equinox/p2//Maintenance_process/](Equinox/p2/Maintenance_process/ "wikilink")
    - The process followed to contribute bug fix to Maintenance builds

## See Also

  - [Equinox p2 Article Index](:Category:Equinox_p2 "wikilink") - All
    Equinox p2 wiki articles
  - [Equinox Article Index](:Category:Equinox "wikilink") - General
    Equinox-related wiki articles
  - [General Provisioning Article
    Index](:Category:Provisioning "wikilink") - General Eclipse
    provisioning related topics including work done in
    [Equinox](Equinox "wikilink"), [Maya](Maya "wikilink") and
    elsewhere.

[Category:Equinox](Category:Equinox "wikilink")
[Category:Equinox_p2](Category:Equinox_p2 "wikilink")