*Disclaimer: this page is a community maintained page, not part of the
p2 project, per se, and is fairly specific to the Eclipse.org
infrastructure. The p2.mirrorsURL concept was implemented by p2 team
primarily for the Eclipse.org Infrastructure, to allow p2 updates and
installs to use its worldwide system of mirrors, though other companies
or networks can use in a similar way for their specific mirroring
system.*

*Thanks to Stephan Herrmann for recognizing the need and getting this
page started, updating it occasionally with new information, and trying
to keep us all 'honest'. Such contributions make Eclipse better.*

## Enabling your repository to leverage mirrors

The `p2.mirrorsURL` should be added to your metadata so that p2 will see
the list of available mirrors to choose during installation.

### Who should add?

Everyone. Every build. At least, everyone at eclipse.org, that is. Other
companies or networks may have their own mirroring system and scripts
which are similar to this, but these instructions are specific for the
Eclipse Foundation infrastructure.

It is true that not each and every build or repository is mirrored (e.g.
integration builds usually are not) but having the property there, even
if there are no mirrors, should not hurt anything ... p2 knows to simply
fall back to the normal "originally requested" location if no mirrors
are found (usually 'http://download.eclipse.org/...').

It is also true that those mirroring eclipse downloads and repositories
have some choice in what they mirror (there are several options, such as
"full", "releases only", "platform only" and similar). So, everyone
should add the property, since you can never be sure if/when your
repository might be mirrored. If it is not mirrored, by anyone, at some
point in time, having the property there should not hurt anything ... p2
knows to simply fall back to the normal "originally requested" location
if no mirrors are found (usually 'http://download.eclipse.org/...').

### Where to add?

Adding this property to `artifacts.xml` is sufficient, since p2 uses a
list of mirrors while retrieving artifacts, not the metadata itself.
(Hence, no need to have one in content.jar/xml or
compositeContent.jar/xml files). Don't forget, `artifacts.jar` must be
updated or replaced after changing artifact.xml. (If both exist,
artifacts.jar will always be fetched before artifacts.xml.)

#### Should composite repos be treated, too, or just their children (leaves)?

Just the leaves. No need to to specify the property in
compositeArtifacts.xml/jar.

### What to add?

The `p2.mirrorsURL` property has the following structure:

``` xml
  <property name="p2.mirrorsURL"
          value="http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file={repository_path}&format=xml"/>
```

  - replace `{repository_path}` with the path where your artifacts.jar
    sits on `download.eclipse.org`,
    e.g., for
    <http://download.eclipse.org/eclipse/updates/3.6/R-3.6.2-201102101200/artifacts.jar>
    the `{repository_path}` would be
    `/eclipse/updates/3.6/R-3.6.2-201102101200`
  - yes, `&` is 5 characters, in this context the escaped version is
    required.
  - ~~the last part, `&protocol=http` is important, since it restricts
    the list of mirrors to those that support http. Monitor  for
    status/progress on p2 working with ftp sites. (In general, such as
    for zip files linked on download pages, and similar, the 'protocol'
    parameter is optional for the `download.php` script and when omitted
    both http and ftp mirrors are returned).~~
        seems to have been a red-herring (or some special case) so ftp and
    http should both work fine, so there is no need to specify the
    protocol attribute and the mirrors script (download.php) will return
    a list that contains both types ... and the more there are to try,
    the better.

This `p2.mirrorsURL` property will end up giving p2 a list of 0 to 100
or so URLs to try and fetch artifacts from. If your project is not
mirrored (or, there is some other problem with mirrors) p2 will fall
back automatically to using the originally requested site location
(usually 'http://download.eclipse.org/...').

### How to add?

#### via site.xml

Note: site.xml files are pretty "out dated" and normally should not
exist on the repo site itself, even if you use it temporarily with some
old tools to produce your metadata, its recommended you not leave on the
repo site itself. The reason is, is that in some rare circumstances, p2
may misinterpret this and think it has found an old update manager site
and try to handle it as such.\]

If you use a `site.xml` the word goes that this is where you should
specify this property. The
[Equinox/p2/Publisher](Equinox/p2/Publisher "wikilink") *should*
automatically transfer this information into your metadata.

If you don't use a `site.xml` you may consider manually editing
`artifacts.xml` (which of course can be automated using, e.g., an xsl
template, like this
[p2.xsl](http://git.eclipse.org/c/mylyn/org.eclipse.mylyn.git/tree/org.eclipse.mylyn.releng/bin/p2.xsl)
from the Mylyn project). When manually editing `artifacts.xml` add the
property to the existing list of properties right at the top of the
document. Don't forget to update the `size` attribute of the enclosing
<properties> element.

#### copying properties from existing repositories during mirroring

Others have reported that the [p2.mirror ant
task](http://help.eclipse.org/indigo/index.jsp?topic=%2Forg.eclipse.platform.doc.isv%2Fguide%2Fp2_mirror.html)
can be used to insert properties like p2.mirrorsURL while mirroring the
build output to the final destination. The following two snippets may
serve for inspiration:

``` xml
<!-- generate template with proper mirror urls -->
<copy
  file=".../template-artifacts.xml"
  tofile="${buildDirectory}/publishRepoTemplate/artifacts.xml">
  <filterset>
        ... specify string substitutions here ...
  </filterset>
</copy>
```

``` xml
<!-- mirror to target (but only the bits that really changed) -->
<p2.mirror ...>
  <source location="..."/>
  <destination .../>
  <destination
    kind="artifact"
        compressed="true"
        name="${p2.repo.name.prefix} (Build ${buildId})"
        location="..."
        append="true"
        format="${templateRepoUrl}"/>
  ...
</p2.mirror>
```

These snippets were extracted from this
[build.xml](http://git.eclipse.org/c/gyrex/gyrex-releng.git/tree/org.eclipse.gyrex.releng/builder/configs/repository/build.xml)
from the gyrex project.

#### Custom Eclipse applications

Some projects have written Eclipse applications to set or change or
remove the p2.mirrorsURL property, such as see
[WTP/Releng/Tools/addRepoProperties](WTP/Releng/Tools/addRepoProperties "wikilink")
as one example. You might be able to re-use this code, as is, or feel
free to copy (to your own namespace) and customize for your project.

#### How to avoid .blobstore for \*.jar.pack.gz files

Technically, repositories that use .blobstore to store pack.gz files can
be used just like any other repository with the same p2.mirrorsURL
attribute as described in this page. (See .) But, many people prefer to
avoid .blobstore, since it goes into a "dot directory" (hidden by
default for most systems and tools) it can be confusing to some people
and tools.

In some scenarios and tools, apparently, the .blobstore form is never
created, and the pack.gz files stored as siblings of the .jar files,
without any action being needed.

But, if you find your scenarios and tools are creating one, and you wish
to avoid it, you basically need to specify a property in your
artifacts.jar/xml before creating or mirroring the pack.gz files:

\<property name="publishPackFilesAsSiblings" value="true/"\>

One easy way to do this, if you are starting from scratch, is to have a
"near empty" artifact.xml file, and then in your p2.mirror "destination"
attribute, specify you'd like to use that near empty artifact.xml file,
via the "format" attribute, to have it used as a template from which to
get properties from ... publishPackFilesAsSiblings being one of the
possible properties.

For example, the Platform builds use this sort of template when getting
started:

    <nowiki>
    <?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
    <?artifactRepository version='1.1.0'?>
    <repository name='Build Template' type='org.eclipse.equinox.p2.artifact.repository.simpleRepository' version='1.0.0'>
      <properties size='2'>
        <property name='publishPackFilesAsSiblings' value='true'/>
        <property name='p2.mirrorsURL' value='http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=@p2RepoPath@/@BUILD_ID@&format=xml'/>
      </properties>
    </repository>
    </nowiki>

And, don't worry, it sounds more complicated that it is ... once you get
it set up the first time.

### How to test?

If you change your artifacts.jar/xml file, you may have to wait a a
while, for mirrors to get "in sync" before being able to test, such as a
few hours, or at most overnight. Seriously, it might "appear" to be
mirrored, but not, so give it at least half a day before starting to
worry.

#### Confirm your artifacts site is being mirrored

The first test you do should be with a browser, to confirm the
download.php script does indeed return some mirrors for your site. To do
this, paste the full URL you specified as the value in the p2.mirrorsURL
attribute into your browser (now collapse & to &). The result should be
an XML file in your browser with a list of mirror URLs. For an example,
you can paste the following URL into your browser, to see who is
mirroring the Juno SR1 artifacts:

<http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?format=xml&file=/releases/juno/201209280900/>

Pasting one of these resulting URLs into the browser should in turn take
you to the directory holding your `artifacts.jar` and its peers. (You
may have to add "artifacts.jar" to the end of the URL, if directory
browsing is not allowed on a particular mirror).

Note that not all "builds" (or repositories) are mirrored. For example,
nightlies, integration builds, staging sites, etc. are explicitly
excluded. See [IT Wiki
page](IT_Infrastructure_Doc#Use_mirror_sites.2Fsee_which_mirrors_are_mirroring_my_files.3F "wikilink")
for details.

#### Confirm your p2.mirrorsURL works with p2 operations

To test whether install successfully uses mirrors (and which ones) you
may use the following options file (stored, e.g., as `/tmp/p2options` or
simply placed in .options file in 'eclipse' directory (the default
location)):

` org.eclipse.equinox.p2.core/debug=true`
` org.eclipse.equinox.p2.core/artifacts/mirrors=true`

(The first line generally enables debugging p2, the second line selects
specific tracing for mirror selection)

Then you may want to unpack a fresh Eclipse package and change into the
`eclipse` directory.

Finally, use the normal Eclipse UI to do an "update" or for more focus,
you can use the [p2 Director
application](Equinox/p2/Director_application "wikilink") to install your
feature using a command line similar to the following:

    <nowiki>
      ./eclipse -consoleLog -noSplash -debug /tmp/p2options -application org.eclipse.equinox.p2.director \
            -repository http://download.eclipse.org/myproject/myrepo \
            -installIU org.eclipse.myproject.myfeature.group
    </nowiki>

This should install your feature and print to the console where each
artifact was downloaded from. If `p2.mirrorsURL` is not properly
configured no such messages will be shown.

You may want to "capture" the console results in a separate file by
adding something like the following to the end of your 'eclipse' command
(at least on Linux):

`2>&1 | tee fulllog.txt`

Once "mirror selection tracing" is in such a log file, you can produce a
quick "histogram" of frequencies of what mirrors are being selected with
a command similar to the following (which was inspired by Markus Knauer
in ):

`grep Selected fulllog.txt | cut -d ":" -f 5- | cut -d "(" -f 2 | cut -d "/" -f 1,2,3 |  sort | uniq -c | sort -r -n`

If things are working well, you should see few, if any, times that
"download.eclipse.org" is selected. As one example, here are the results
of one run, updating Indigo SR1 Java EE IDE to SR2 from the built-in
repositories:

    <nowiki>
         92 http://mirror.cc.columbia.edu
         54 http://mirrors.med.harvard.edu
         50 http://mirror.cc.vt.edu
         43 http://mirrors.ibiblio.org
         43 http://carroll.aset.psu.edu
         26 http://download.eclipse.org
         24 ftp://eclipse.c3sl.ufpr.br
         20 http://ftp.jaist.ac.jp
         17 http://mirrors.xmission.com
         16 http://ftp.ussg.iu.edu
         13 http://www.gtlib.gatech.edu
         11 http://ftp.osuosl.org
          8 http://mirror.aarnet.edu.au
          8 http://ftp.yz.yamagata-u.ac.jp
          5 http://eclipse.mirrorcatalogs.com
          3 http://mirrors.ustc.edu.cn
          1 http://eclipse.stu.edu.tw
    </nowiki>

## When not to use the p2.mirrorsURL property?

Only if you are developing a repository for your own "private" or
company use and do not want it to go to other mirrors for any reason.
This is certainly legitimate for non-Eclipse projects. But, also,
occasionally companies mirror an Eclipse repository for their own
internal use, and if they do not want their internal users to be
redirected to other sites, they may need to "manually" remove the
attribute from their mirrored version of the repository. Follow (or
contribute to)  for requested enhancements to the p2.mirror task to make
this easier.

## Can the p2.mirrorsURL property be harmful?

Yes. If it is incorrect. For example, if someone has released a "3.7"
version, but their p2.mirrrorsURL value still points to "3.6
repositories" it will result in a lot of "wild goose chases" for
artifacts it will never find and end up going back to eclipse.org anyway
(and causing the bandwidth problems there, it was designed to help
with).

So, please make sure your values are accurate and work as expected.
Nicolas Bros, in  contributed this handy "one liner" for listing your
p2.mirrorsURL values in your subdirectories of repositories (which could
be easily re-written as a non-one-liner, if you desire to have in your
own script file):

    <nowiki>
     find . -type f -name 'artifacts.jar' -or -name 'artifacts.xml' \
        | while read i; \
     do echo "$i"; \
        if [["$i"_=~_.*/artifacts.jar|"$i" =~ .*/artifacts.jar]]; \
        then echo "  "$(unzip -p "$i"|grep "p2.mirrorsURL"); \
        else echo "  "$(cat "$i"|grep "p2.mirrorsURL"); \
        fi; \
     done
    </nowiki>

Plus, there has, in the past, been discussions if the use of mirrors by
p2 is a good thing, such as see the [p2-dev
list](http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/p2-dev/msg04437.html), but
until the Eclipse Foundation gets its own world-wide server farm, it is
the only workable solution known for the millions of installs and
updates that Eclipse users do each year. (Note, it was primarily
designed for installs and updates ... and it is "using it for builds"
that appear to be what is mostly complained about). Not to mention, many
improvements and bug fixes have been made over the years, and all users
and committers are encouraged to open new bugs or feature requests
(and/or contribute patches) if they find bugs or inadequate behavior.

## Avoiding mirrors, even when using p2.mirrorsURL

You can disable the automatic mirror selection mechanism by setting the
VM argument eclipse.p2.mirrors to false (remember that vm args have to
be last on the command line preceded by the switch `-vmargs`). Normally
this is not desired or recommended since it may be slower or, if many
people did it, all the time, cause Eclipse Infrastructure to slow down
for everyone and overuse bandwidth. But, it can be used occasionally for
tests if you suspect a problem with mirroring (for example, if it
appears you are getting old or stale content you might want to try
by-passing mirrors temporarily, to test that.

## Interesting bugs or pages with tools attached

Many of these have not been used/updated for a while, so they are listed
here for information only. Its hoped you can find the tools useful (or
help refine them) but use at your own risk ... and on non-production
test systems, at least initially.

  -

    \- Mirror Validator

    \- Publisher app + ant task should support statsURI option

    [WTP/Releng/Tools/addRepoProperties](WTP/Releng/Tools/addRepoProperties "wikilink")

[Category:Equinox_p2](Category:Equinox_p2 "wikilink")